https://card.weibo.com/article/v3/editor#/history/318342


                                    truechain的一些畅想
    公有链技术以太坊、EOS发展一路而来，已经到了区块链3.0技术。但现在的区块链3.0的通过这几个月的证实，
技术并不完美。比如闪电网络并不能达到所设想的状态，超级节点时常被攻击的风险。因此现有的公有链技术，
如何实现生态链数据快速处理，并能够在保证各完整节点提供大的数据处理能力的前提下，又能保证其安全性，
是现有区块链3.0技术值得改进的地方。
    自从比特币的创始和快速发展，尤其是作为金融资本的炒作的工具，使得比特币为底层技术区块链快速进入
广大人民的视野。现在区块链技术代表着财富的暴增，现在的许多区块链被资本的俘虏来成为炒作的工具。因此
作为公有链的truechain,应该为更多的技术落地而服务，技术的长足发展才能保证效益的长期稳定。
关于区块链的一些看法
一、区块链技术认识现有局限
    现在区块链技术主要存在于技术圈子内，技术圈子外只能认识是一种虚拟的币，并能做为炒作的工具。区块
链技术将来如果想得到长足发展，必须让每个人都熟知他。就像以前的计算机，逐渐走进我们现在生活和工作中。
因此让区块链技术的可视化，让每个人都能快速认识和理解他，而不是现在一堆的技术黑箱。例如：区块链技术
的分布记账。现在的各种分布记账公开的信息都是每个终端都储存有，普通用户只能通过浏览器查看信息，但这
个信息量非常有限。实际上私有链上所有数据都保存于我们每个客户终端，但客户终端并不能查看到具体的数据。
每个人想看具体的交易数据和智能合约根本不能实现。这样何为的信息公开，何为让每个人都见证信息的发生。
因此后期如何建立在数据安全和保证信息隐私安全的前提下，并能让每个客户终端都能可视化具体的数据，是区
块链技术为大众所接受的关键之一。
二、分布记账功能区分
    现在区块链分布记账都是简单的拷贝功能，各私有链的客户终端都是记录一样的数据，这样造成功能浪费，
并加重网络的负担，因此我觉得如何让区块链技术如何实现账本和合约的功能区分。通过各功能模块组合实现整
个网络模块。并且各功能模块能有效的技术衔接，并能保证各区块数据安全性。现在云储存技术已经得到长足发
展，因此如何利用云技术与区块链技术有效的结合起来，既能保证数据的安全性，又能减少资源的浪费。
   初链（truechain）迎合了区块链技术开发的初衷之一：低成本。前期比特币的推动者都是打破国家之间金融
壁垒，使国家之间的制裁不会影响货币的流通，并能高效低成本的进行资金流通。不过这个初衷通过这几年的大
量的资本介入。使得小额转账成本非常高，而对于普通大众来说，小额转账是非常频繁的，现有的区块链技术越
来越成为富人的工具，更多的普通大众越来越用不起了。如果没有一个低成本的工具，最终是会被大众所抛弃的。
因此初链如果能提供一个低成本的公有链生态链。那么将来必然在区块链领域长期立足发展。并利用PBFT（拜占
庭容错算法），这种算法能使多种优化性能提高很多,并才有合约抽象，这样对走进大众更好，因为普通大众更多
的来自非计算机技术行业，要求他们编制复杂的合约计算机语言比较难，因此像计算机操作系统一样，更简单方
便的为大众所有工具，是区块链共同追求的目标。希望初链社区成员能共同推动其发展。
                            Some thoughts about truechain
    Public chain technology has been developed long time like Ethereum\EOS, developing 3.0 technologies
of block chain. But now that the block chain 3.0 passed, these months proved that technology is not 
perfect. For example, the lightning network does not achieve the desired state, and the risk of super
nodes being attacked frequently. Therefore, the existing public chain technology, how to achieve the
rapid processing of ecological chain data, and can ensure the integrity of the nodes to provide large
data processing capacity, but also to ensure its security, is the existing block chain 3.0 technology
is worth improving.
    Since the creation and rapid development of Bitcoin, especially as a means of financial capital
speculation, Bitcoin as the underlying technology block chain quickly entered the vision of the broad
masses of people. Now block chain technology represents a surge in wealth, many of which are captured
by capital as a means of hype. Therefore, truechain, as a public chain, should serve for more technology
landing. The rapid development of technology can ensure the long-term stability of benefits.
Some views on block chain
   First, block chain technology to understand existing limitations.
   Now block chain technology mainly exists in the technology circle, outside the technology circle can
only be recognized as a virtual coin, and can be used as a tool for speculation. In the future, if we
want to develop rapidly, we must let everyone know it. Just like the computers, they gradually come into
our lives and work. So let the visualization of block chain technology, so that everyone can understand
it, rather than the current pile of technology black box. For example: block chaining technology 
distribution bookkeeping. Now all kinds of distributed accounting information are stored in each terminal,
ordinary users can only view information through the browser, but the amount of information is very limited. 
In fact, all the data on the private chain is stored in each of our client terminals, but the client terminal
can not see the specific data. Everyone wants to see specific transaction data and intelligent contracts can
not be realized at all. So what is the information disclosure, so that everyone can witness the occurrence of
information. Therefore, how to establish the premise of data security and information privacy security, and 
enable each client terminal to visualize specific data, block chain technology is one of the keys accepted 
by the public.
   Two, distribution accounting function distinction
   Now block chain distributed bookkeeping is a simple copy function, the private chain of the client 
terminals are recording the same data, which causes a waste of function, and increase the burden of the
network, so I think how to let the block chain technology to achieve the functional distinction between
books and contracts. The whole network module is realized through the combination of various functional
modules. Moreover, the functional modules can effectively connect the technology and ensure the data 
security of each block. Now cloud technology has been greatly developed, so how to effectively combine
cloud technology with block chain technology can not only ensure the security of data, but also reduce
the waste of resources.
   The TrueChain caters for the original intention of the block chain technology development: low cost.
The prophase of Bitcoin was to break financial barriers between countries, so that sanctions between 
countries would not affect the currency flow, and efficient and low-cost capital flow. However, this 
intention has been intervened through a large number of capital in recent years. Make the cost of small
transfer is very high, and for the general public, small transfer is very frequent, the existing block
chain technology is increasingly becoming a tool for the rich, more and more ordinary people can not
use it. Without a low-cost tool, it will eventually be abandoned by the public people. Therefore, if
the initial chain can provide a low-cost public chain ecological chain. So in the future, we must 
develop in the field of block chain for a long time. And use PBFT this algorithm can make a lot of 
optimization performance improvements, and only contract abstraction, which is better for the public,
because the general public more from non-computer technology industries, require them to compile 
complex contract computer language is more difficult, so like computer operating systems. Similarly,
simpler and more convenient tools for all the public are the common goal of block chain. It is hoped
that community members in the truechain can jointly promote their development.

https://card.weibo.com/article/v3/editor#/history/318342
