Why Bullish Truechain Hybrid Consensus Algorithm？
As we all know，the core value of the blockchain is not efficiency in itself and builds trust on a zero-knowledge basis through a consensus mechanism.But Hybrid Consensus can easily balance it.

Hybrid Consensus Algorithm
POW：bitcoin CPU, ethereumCPU+Memory

Hybrid POW+DPOS：Hcash, Decred

Hybrid DPOS+POW: Matrix

xPOS: POS, DPOS, VRF+POS(Algorand、Dfinity和Ouroboros Praos)

BFT: PBFT/Hyperledger, FBA/Ripple & Stellar, DBFT/NEO, aBFT/IOTA

In terms of the combination of consensus mechanisms, we see that the typical bitcoin only uses the CPU’s POW. In addition to the CPU plus memory limitations, Ethereum allows more general computers to participate. Of course, some people are beginning to think about why they can’t do compounding and do a POW+POS. The committee will check it again to reduce the problems caused by POW. This is an approach. Another way is to have a DPOS and then a POW. This is the new approach to Matrix.

There is also VRF+POS, which is what we see recently as a new Dfinity. Their approach is to generate a series of random nodes. The method of generating random nodes is verifiable, because sometimes random numbers may be generated. The unfair practice is in it, and this approach can test that it is truly random.

For the improvement of the blockchain and consensus mechanism, the structure of the blockchain, the first one is to change the single chain into a tree chain. Branches, side branches, and shards are all for this purpose. The second is to do it with a hash map.

Truechain try to solve the problem in another way.

TrueChain Technical Architecture
The blockchain has achieved a lot in the alliance chain and the private chain, so everyone has higher expectations for the development of the public chain. But the creation of the public chain is not easy. How to build trust between the constantly expanding strange nodes and ensure their security and efficiency is a very difficult problem. However, the hybrid consensus mechanism proposed by the initial chain provides a good solution to this problem.

TrueChain aims to build a public chain that carries future commercial decentralized applications. Its ultimate goal is to create a free and equal trust society. As its white paper writes, what they are proposing is that it strikes a good balance between security and performance. It has the advantage of supporting unlimited node entry, high security, high performance and free use. TrueChain’s application areas are also quite extensive, including insurance, medical, gaming, asset securitization, digital advertising industry, micropayments, value transmission, digital copyright, etc. I believe that TrueChain will penetrate into more fields in the future.

In order to balance the relationship between security and performance, TrueChain has tried different consensus mechanisms. The most prominent is the hybrid consensus mechanism. Commonly, public chain developers use a single consensus mechanism, such as POW, POS, DPOS, etc., but often Take care of this. TrueChain adopts the strong combination of highlights, which greatly absorbs the advantages of PBFT efficiency and POW decentralization.

The design of the consensus mechanism is the core difference between the public chain and the private chain and the alliance chain. It needs to be sufficiently decentralized to achieve security, and requires high running speed to ensure performance. The industry has basically formed an understanding — it is difficult to balance the efficiency and decentralization nature with a single consensus mechanism. The Truechain chose a hybrid consensus mechanism that combines the efficiency of PBFT with the decentralization of POW. On the basis of ensuring the essence of decentralization, high-performance, high-reliability public-chain development is realized to carry the goal of large-scale commercial Dapp operation. The mechanism for retaining the PBFT record book is not moved, the selection of the super node is opened to the public chain, and the POW protocol is used as the quasi-system to support the dynamic selection and agreement of the super node, and the formation of the backbone node community is transformed from the private chain and the alliance chain property to The nature of the public chain.



https://medium.com/@JackhuaKitty/why-bullish-truechain-hybrid-consensus-algorithm-229ff8305f10
